# Progressive-Ratio-Analysis-
Progressive ratio (PR) studies involve a schedule of drug reinforcement delivery that is defined by an increasing response requirement for reinforcer delivery over successive sessions. These kind of studies are often used in pharmacology or behavioral science fields in order to assess drug potency or possible addiction and the subsequent behavior involved. 
This code (developed for MATLAB) specifically analyzes behavioral microstructures such as the post-reinforcement pauses (PRP) and ratio-based response rates (RBRR) during a PR study using MEDPC output text files. The code utilizes pre-named MEDPC variables B, E,and I...B referring to time stamps for lever presses, E referring to time stamps for magazine entries, and I referring to time Stamps for reinforcer delivery. Variables can be edited within code to reflect alternative naming conventions but should contain same time stamp information. Additionally, MEDPC file should list subject number (within subject field) as well as differentiating a 'Right' and 'Left' lever per subject (within MSN field). 
Before beginning, have a folder ready with all the MED-PC .txt files corresponding to subject data that is meant to be analyzed. Then click run in MATLAB and select the folder when prompted. Code has several repeating structures with annotations explaining the purpose of each section. Specific line explanations can be located at the beginning each of these sections and additional subjects can be analyzed by copying existing sections of code and replacing previous subject numbers with the newer subject numbers. 'Cntrl F' in MATLAB is a simple and efficient way to find and replace aspects of code (such as subject number) but should be done in a separate MATLAB window and copy/pasted back into the file as to not alter original code.
For the experimental groups (ETOH1 - 1 hour ethanol, ETOH4 - 4 hour ethanol, and SAL - Saline), user must manually enter the subjects that belong to each group. This would done several times for both the right and left lever per group and involves the MED-PC variables corresponding to the various analysis (i.e Lever press = B...enter B_1R, not just 1, or I = reinforcer deliveries...enter I_1R into the corresponding group). Where group data should be manually entered is denoted with '******' at the end of the corresponding section titles. 
Overall analysis computes post-reinforcement pause (PRP) for each subject and group, ratio-based response rate (RBRR) for each subject and group, cumulative lever presses (LP) per group, cumulative reinforcer deliveries (RT) per group, average PRP for each group and subject, average RBRR for each group and subject, and additionally calculates standard error for all data corresponding to the calculated group data. Once the code is run, individual data can be copied from MATLAB's variable list into excel or other software for graphing or further analysis.
